 

INTRODUCTION

It goes by many names: “The Crisis,” “The Dark Years,” “The Walking
Plague,” as well as newer and more “hip” dtles such as “World War 2” or
*Z War One.” | personally dislike this last moniker as it implies an
inevitable “Z War Two.” For me, it wil always be “The Zombie War,” and,
‘while many may protest the scientific accuracy of the word zombie, they
rill be hard-pressed to discover a more globally accepted term for the
‘Creatures that almost caused our extinction. Zombie remains a devastating
‘ord, unrivaled in its power to conjure up so many memories or emotions,
{nd {tis these memories, and emotions, that are the subject of this book.

‘This record of the greatest conflict in human history owes its genesis to a
much smaller, much more personal conflict between me and the
‘chairperson of the United Nation's Postwar Commission Report. My initial
Work for the Commission could be described as nothing short of a labor of
Jove. My travel stipend, my security access, my battery of translators, both
human and electronic, as well as my small, but nearly priceless voice-
activated transcription “pal” (the greatest gift the world’s slowest typist
‘could ask for), all spoke to the respect and value my work was afforded on
this project. So, needless to say, it came as a shock when I found almost
half of that work deleted from the report's final edition.

“It was all too intimate," the chairperson said during one of our many
“animated” discussions.

“Too many opinions, too many feelings. That's not what this report is
about. We need clear facts and figures, unclouded by the human factor.”
‘Of course, she was right. The official report was a collection of cold, hard
data, an objective “after-action report” that would allow future
‘generations to study the events of that apocalyptic decade without being
Influenced by “the human factor.” But isn’t the human factor what
‘connects us s0 deeply to our past? Will future generations care as much
for chronologies and casualty statistics as they would for the personal
‘accounts of Individuals not so different from themselves? By excluding the
human factor, aren’t we risking the kind of personal detachment from a
history that may, heaven forbid, lead us one day to repeat it? And in the
end, (sn’t the human factor the only true difference between us and the
‘enemy we now refer to as “the living dead"? I presented this argument,
pethaps less professionally than was appropriate, to my “bass,” who after
my final exclamation of “we can’t let these stories die” responded
Immediately with, “Then don't. Write a book. You've still got all your
notes, and the legal freedom to use them. Who's stopping you from

 

 
